Pre-review Background Documents:  A minimum of two weeks before the peer review, the NOAA Fisheries Project Contact will send (by electronic mail or make available at an FTP site/GitHub Repository) to the CIE reviewers the necessary background information and reports for the peer review. In the case where the documents need to be mailed, the NOAA Fisheries Project Contact will consult with the CIE on where to send documents. The CIE reviewers are responsible only for the pre-review documents that are delivered to the reviewer in accordance with the PWS scheduled deadlines specified herein. The document list is separated into ‘summary/background’ and ‘for review’ documents. The CIE reviewers are encouraged to peruse the ‘summary/background’ documents for information on data inputs, existing model structure, previous assessment reviews, and ongoing research. However, the CIE reviews must read all of the ‘for review’ documents in preparation for the peer review, as these contain the results of the primary analyses and model runs that will be discussed during the review panel.

Documents for review (available from the public sablefish CIE GitHub repository, as they become available) include:

*For Review*
1.	A summary document describing the fleets-as-areas assessment model, including the full model description and results with comparison to outputs from the single region panmictic assessment, as well as summary results for all sensitivity model runs;
2.	A document summarizing the results of the spatially explicit closed loop simulation analysis;
3.	Additional supporting documents and presentations as they become available;
4.	The 2025 Alaskan sablefish stock assessment proposed model changes report (Goethel and Cheng, 2025) produced for the September 2025 Joint Plan Team meeting, presentation, and GitHub repository, which describes recent changes to the current single region panmictic assessment including transition to RTMB and the SPoRC assessment package;
5.	The spatial sablefish model publication and model updates (Cheng et al., 2025a) for the September 2025 Joint Plan Team meeting;

*Summary/Background*
1.	The 2024 Alaskan sablefish Stock Assessment and Fishery Evaluation (SAFE) report (Goethel and Cheng, 2024) and presentation, 
2.	The 2024 December SSC (p. 14-16) and November Joint Plan Team (p. 2-3) reports;
3.	The 2025 AFSC Longline Survey Cruise Report (Siwicke et al., 2026) and presentation;
4.	The 2025 October SSC (pp. 21-23) and September Joint Plan Team (p. 5-6) reports;
5.	The SPoRC assessment platform publication (Cheng et al., 2026) and GitHub documentation;
6.	Research papers on integrating density-dependent growth (Cheng et al., 2025b) and a pot gear fleet (Cheng et al., 2024a) into the sablefish assessment, simulation studies on selectivity (Cheng et al., 2024b) and sex-specific parametrization (Cheng et al., 2025c) for the sablefish assessment, and considerations for fitting sex-specific composition data (Cheng et al., 2025d) in stock assessments;
7.	CIE reviewer reports from the 2016 Alaskan sablefish CIE review. 
